README.md, before:

CircuitSim v1.8.2
=================

NOTE: The CS 2110 fork of CircuitSim is not compatible with upstream CircuitSim
jars, nor the version used in CS 2200. If you're looking to download CircuitSim,
either use the version provided by the CS 2110 Docker container or the jar
downloadable from Canvas.

Basic circuit simulator with many built-in components. Check out `src/com/ra4king/circuitsim/simulator/components`
for examples of how Components are written. Their GUI counterparts are in `src/com/ra4king/circuitsim/gui/peers`.

Screenshot
![Screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/Oon39Np.png)

Building
========

Requires Gradle and JDK 11. Build a jar using:

    $ ./gradlew jar

It is recommended to run with JVM option -Xmx250M to limit the heap size to 250MB.

[1]: http://openjdk.java.net/jeps/238

Changelog
=========

1.8.2
=====
- Hotfix for issue with buffer component where setting a label causes a NullPointerException
- Hotfix for issue with memory editor for both RAM and ROM components where pasting 16 or more values causes it to skip a column every 16th value
- Improve error message window to include "Save and Exit"


1.8.1
-----
- Significant performance and memory usage improvements
- Holding CTRL will keep a component selected after placing it
- Circuit file generation is now deterministic
- Fix subcircuit pin count mismatch errors
- Fix display of Output pin, where it used to be printed as Input pin
- Fix saving ROM contents after being broken in 1.8.0
- (Breaking change) Fix subcircuit pin ordering on the east and west side by sorting by Y instead of X


1.8.0
-----
- Revamp ROM/RAM component look: now showing the current address and value
- Revamp ROM/RAM memory editor: no need to double click to start typing, no need to hit enter to commit, full multi-cell copy/paste support
- Huge improvement and bug-fixes to wire behavior when moving components and with undo/redo
- Add RandomGenerator component
- Add copy/cut/paste to context menu in circuit editor
- Display missing label names in certain components
- Add All Files option in Load File dialog
- Fixed bug with gates where downsizing the number of inputs kept the extra Negate options


1.7.4
-----
- Fix several bugs with wire creation when dragging components
- Give an option to send an error report upon unexpected errors
- Minor bug fixes


1.7.3
-----
- Fix blue wire issues with Tunnels and subcircuits
- Highlight wires when clicking on them
- Ctrl+scroll now zooms in/out
- Right clicking when placing components or dragging wires cancels the action
- Fix bug with intersecting wires being auto-joined on drag
- Improved error handling


1.7.2
-----
- Add Probe component, which lets you observe values on wires without resorting to output pins
- Improve behavior multi-component selection when holding down control by disabling drag-less wire creation when control is held down
- Copy doesn't do anything when nothing is selected instead of emptying the clipboard
- Other minor bugs fixed


1.7.1
-----
- Squashed tunnel bugs: now short-circuits should propagate properly across them and tunnels should work properly
- Added comparison type to Comparator: now you can do both 2's complement and unsigned comparison
- Draw magnifying glass to subcircuit components when hovering over them to indicate ability to view internal state
- Officially making a file format change supporting library paths
- Other minor bugs fixed


1.7.0
-----
- Big thanks to Cem Gokmen for helping with the Mac issues and Austin Adams for gradle-ifying the repo!
- Now supporting both Java 8 and 9 - thanks to Austin Adams for figuring out how to create a multi-release Jar.
- Huge rendering performance improvements, especially for Mac
- Fixed keyboard shortcut issue on Mac
- Use system menu bar on Mac instead of the in-app bar
- Added an update checker that notifies you when there is a new version
- Fixed a bug with subcircuits where it pushed values through output pins, causing seemingly un-explainable short circuits.
- Improved behavior of tab selection when moving them or deleting them, especially with undo/redo
- Many minor bug fixes and improvements


1.6.2
-----
- Fixed exceptions being thrown when using Tunnels
- Now you don't have hit enter to update a text or value property, someone complained that it was annoying. The component is automatically updated when you unfocus from the text input.
- Multi-bit wires with a floating bit (X) now show up as dark blue instead of black
- Button now has directions


1.6.1
-----
- Improved behavior when dragging components to also delete wires whenever they overlap existing ones
- Huge performance increases with subcircuits and tunnels. Bad designs will still be very slow to run the autograder in.
- Now showing Help dialog on first run.


1.6.0
-----
- Added creation of new wires when dragging components. This allows maintaining existing connections when dragging components to new locations.
- Hold CTRL before beginning the drag to disable this.
- Fixed file load issue where an error was thrown if the folder doesn't exist anymore.
- Fixed issues with dragging + keyboard shortcuts
- Fixed an undo bug when updating components

Commit message:

Bump version to 1.8.2.1
Note: normal CircuitSim version numbers only use three version numbers (e.g. 1.8.2) but this does not correspond to a new CircuitSim version (yet)

This is just a hotfix to include the 'new' transistor prior to Fall 2022

README.md, after:

CircuitSim v1.8.2.1
=================

NOTE: The CS 2110 fork of CircuitSim is not compatible with upstream CircuitSim
jars, nor the version used in CS 2200. If you're looking to download CircuitSim,
either use the version provided by the CS 2110 Docker container or the jar
downloadable from Canvas.

Basic circuit simulator with many built-in components. Check out `src/com/ra4king/circuitsim/simulator/components`
for examples of how Components are written. Their GUI counterparts are in `src/com/ra4king/circuitsim/gui/peers`.

Screenshot
![Screenshot](http://i.imgur.com/Oon39Np.png)

Building
========

Requires Gradle and JDK 11. Build a jar using:

    $ ./gradlew jar

It is recommended to run with JVM option -Xmx250M to limit the heap size to 250MB.

[1]: http://openjdk.java.net/jeps/238

Changelog
=========

1.8.2.1
=====
- Note: this does not correspond to an official CircuitSim release, this is basically to shoehorn in some features that haven't officially made it in to CircuitSim yet but are desired for Fall 2022
- Created new transistor component that checks that p-type and n-type are connected appropriately
- Renamed level-triggered SR/D Flip-Flop components to SR/D Latch


1.8.2
=====
- Hotfix for issue with buffer component where setting a label causes a NullPointerException
- Hotfix for issue with memory editor for both RAM and ROM components where pasting 16 or more values causes it to skip a column every 16th value
- Improve error message window to include "Save and Exit"


1.8.1
-----
- Significant performance and memory usage improvements
- Holding CTRL will keep a component selected after placing it
- Circuit file generation is now deterministic
- Fix subcircuit pin count mismatch errors
- Fix display of Output pin, where it used to be printed as Input pin
- Fix saving ROM contents after being broken in 1.8.0
- (Breaking change) Fix subcircuit pin ordering on the east and west side by sorting by Y instead of X


1.8.0
-----
- Revamp ROM/RAM component look: now showing the current address and value
- Revamp ROM/RAM memory editor: no need to double click to start typing, no need to hit enter to commit, full multi-cell copy/paste support
- Huge improvement and bug-fixes to wire behavior when moving components and with undo/redo
- Add RandomGenerator component
- Add copy/cut/paste to context menu in circuit editor
- Display missing label names in certain components
- Add All Files option in Load File dialog
- Fixed bug with gates where downsizing the number of inputs kept the extra Negate options


1.7.4
-----
- Fix several bugs with wire creation when dragging components
- Give an option to send an error report upon unexpected errors
- Minor bug fixes


1.7.3
-----
- Fix blue wire issues with Tunnels and subcircuits
- Highlight wires when clicking on them
- Ctrl+scroll now zooms in/out
- Right clicking when placing components or dragging wires cancels the action
- Fix bug with intersecting wires being auto-joined on drag
- Improved error handling


1.7.2
-----
- Add Probe component, which lets you observe values on wires without resorting to output pins
- Improve behavior multi-component selection when holding down control by disabling drag-less wire creation when control is held down
- Copy doesn't do anything when nothing is selected instead of emptying the clipboard
- Other minor bugs fixed


1.7.1
-----
- Squashed tunnel bugs: now short-circuits should propagate properly across them and tunnels should work properly
- Added comparison type to Comparator: now you can do both 2's complement and unsigned comparison
- Draw magnifying glass to subcircuit components when hovering over them to indicate ability to view internal state
- Officially making a file format change supporting library paths
- Other minor bugs fixed


1.7.0
-----
- Big thanks to Cem Gokmen for helping with the Mac issues and Austin Adams for gradle-ifying the repo!
- Now supporting both Java 8 and 9 - thanks to Austin Adams for figuring out how to create a multi-release Jar.
- Huge rendering performance improvements, especially for Mac
- Fixed keyboard shortcut issue on Mac
- Use system menu bar on Mac instead of the in-app bar
- Added an update checker that notifies you when there is a new version
- Fixed a bug with subcircuits where it pushed values through output pins, causing seemingly un-explainable short circuits.
- Improved behavior of tab selection when moving them or deleting them, especially with undo/redo
- Many minor bug fixes and improvements


1.6.2
-----
- Fixed exceptions being thrown when using Tunnels
- Now you don't have hit enter to update a text or value property, someone complained that it was annoying. The component is automatically updated when you unfocus from the text input.
- Multi-bit wires with a floating bit (X) now show up as dark blue instead of black
- Button now has directions


1.6.1
-----
- Improved behavior when dragging components to also delete wires whenever they overlap existing ones
- Huge performance increases with subcircuits and tunnels. Bad designs will still be very slow to run the autograder in.
- Now showing Help dialog on first run.


1.6.0
-----
- Added creation of new wires when dragging components. This allows maintaining existing connections when dragging components to new locations.
- Hold CTRL before beginning the drag to disable this.
- Fixed file load issue where an error was thrown if the folder doesn't exist anymore.
- Fixed issues with dragging + keyboard shortcuts
- Fixed an undo bug when updating components
